HEXED is (c) 1994, 1997 Graham THE Ollis.

legal stuff
-----------

HEXED source code and binaries may be used, modified and distributed free
of cost so long as you keep my comments at the beginning of this file and
distribute this README with the distribution.  IF YOU DO MAKE CHANGES and
distribute changed versions it would be nice if you documented these
changes and a contact point in the source code and/or this README file. 

what is hexed?
--------------

hexed was born one day when i needed to do some obscecure task with a
binary file.  for the life of me i can't remember.  for quite a while i
got it working better (in my opinion) than any binary file editor ever.
it does take a little practice, and if your not careful, you can burn
yourself.  HEXED FOR THE MOST PART MODIFIES BINARY FILES DIRECTLY.  so if
your not real sure about what you are doing it's best that you back up any
file you need to.  the save/restore functions serve well as low level
interface to the cache and should be ignored for the most part.

hexed understands a number of file formats ranging from really useful to
really obsecure.  GIF is one of the more useful and IBK is one of the more
obsecure for example.  they are just formats i needed from one time or
another and added on.  hexed will identify a byte in these files and tell
you about it.  if you don't already understand the format this function
will likely to be useless.  it is really just an aid, not something to
hold your hand.

that sort of describes hexed in general though.  be careful you may be
burned.  if you want to "fix" it to your liking the source code is
available in ./src.

versions of hexed
-----------------

hexed is available as a 16bit TURBO PASCAL binary only.  the binaries are
provided so you don't need to compile hexed unless your in to that sort of
thing.  hexed has an illustrious history which includes thousands of
changes i can't remember 90% of them myself.

 * v1.00 - original version everything you needed was there, except you 
           needed keep the files small.  hexed loaded the entire file in
           to memory and thus was limited by memory.

 * v1.2x - somewhere around here i decided to use a buffer method to chuck
           the old file size limitation.  now the size of the file was
           limited only by the DOS 16bit FAT file system.  (don't get me
           started)

 * v1.58 - this version had all the bells and whistles.  supported more
           formats that you can count on your fingers (both hands).  color
           tables, bit field editing, insertion/deletion of binary data
           and a whole lot more. 

 * v1.60 - well now that i'm a college student i don't program in pascal
           anymore (the few modifications i made here illustrate why too) 
           though this program is too handy to throw away but too big to
           port to DOS. for 1.60 i chucked the "incourage to register" 
           mode and decided to make hexed available as free software in
           the tradition of GNU and Linux.  other small modifications
           include: hexed is now 0 based (instead of 1 based) like C and
           added the new version of the frag format to the various other
           definitions. 

compiling frag
--------------

 * dos

    you'll need turbo pascal of at LEAST 5.0.  you may even need a newer 
    versions as i tested and compiled this using version 7.0.  if you are
    running dos you shouldn't even need to compile hexed though.  binaries
    frag.exe and unfrag.exe have been included.  put these in your path. 

    unless you do some major hacking you will probably need to use tpx
    rather than tpc.  this version of hexed is HUGE.  it's probably the
    largest utility based program ever and seeing as how i don't really
    enjoy pain it will probably stay that way. 

    perl, linux and gnu are the wave of the future so don't expect me to
    make any major modifications of hexed in the future.  if any one would
    like to port this to another platform, get a lot of tylenol and stuff
    like that because it will be a pain.  this code is very much platform
    dependant. 

contacting the author
---------------------

if you need help or are interested in the latest version of frag, you can
e-mail me at work or school: 

Graham THE Ollis <ollisg@ns.arizona.edu>
Graham THE Ollis <ollisg@idea-bank.com>
Graham THE Ollis <ollisg@lanl.gov>

http://www.u.arizona.edu/~ollisg
